November 16, 1973

Dear Mr.  McCarthy:

I am writing to you in your capacity as chairman of the Drake School
Board.  I am among those American writers whose books have been
destroyed in the now famous furnace of your school.

Certain members of your community have suggested that my work is evil.
This is extraordinarily insulting to me.  The news from Drake
indicates to me that books and writers are very unreal to you people.
I am writing this letter to let you know how real I am.

I want you to know, too, that my publisher and I have done absolutely
nothing to exploit the disgusting news from Drake.  We are not
clapping each other on the back, crowing about all the books we will
sell because of the news.  We have declined to go on television, have
written no fiery letters to editorial pages, have granted no lengthy
interviews.  We are angered and sickened and saddened.  And no copies
of this letter have been sent to anybody else.  You now hold the only
copy in your hands.  It is a strictly private letter from me to the
people of Drake, who have done so much to damage my reputation in the
eyes of their children and then in the eyes of the world.  Do you have
the courage and ordinary decency to show this letter to the people, or
will it, too, be consigned to the fires of your furnace?

I gather from what I read in the papers and hear on television that
you imagine me, and some other writers, too, as being sort of ratlike
people who enjoy making money from poisoning the minds of young
people.  I am in fact a large, strong person, fifty-one years old, who
did a lot of farm work as a boy, who is good with tools.  I have
raised six children, three my own and three adopted.  They have all
turned out well.  Two of them are farmers.  I am a combat infantry
veteran from World War II, and hold a Purple Heart.  I have earned
whatever I own by hard work.  I have never been arrested or sued for
anything.  I am so much trusted with young people and by young people
that I have served on the faculties of the University of Iowa,
Harvard, and the City College of New York.  Every year I receive at
least a dozen invitations to be commencement speaker at colleges and
high schools.  My books are probably more widely used in schools than
those of any other living American fiction writer.

If you were to bother to read my books, to behave as educated persons
would, you would learn that they are not sexy, and do not argue in
favor of wildness of any kind.  They beg that people be kinder and more
responsible than they often are.  It is true that some of the
characters speak coarsely.  That is because people speak coarsely in
real life.  Especially soldiers and hardworking men speak coarsely, and
even our most sheltered children know that.  And we all know, too, that
those words really don't damage children much.  They didn't damage us
when we were young.  It was evil deeds and lying that hurt us.

After I have said all this, I am sure you are still ready to respond,
in effect, "Yes, yes-but it still remains our right and our
responsibility to decide what books our children are going to be made
to read in our community."  This is surely so.  But it is also true
that if you exercise that right and fulfill that responsibility in an
ignorant, harsh, un-American manner, then people are entitled to call
you bad citizens and fools.  Even your own children are entitled to
call you that.

I read in the newspaper that your community is mystified by the outcry
from all over the country about what you have done.  Well, you have
discovered that Drake is a part of American civilization, and your
fellow Americans can't stand it that you have behaved in such an
uncivilized way.  Perhaps you will learn from this that books are
sacred to free men for very good reasons, and that wars have been
fought against nations which hate books and burn them.  If you are an
American, you must allow all ideas to circulate freely in your
community, not merely your own.

If you and your board are now determined to show that you in fact have
wisdom and maturity when you exercise your powers over the eduction of
your young, then you should acknowledge that it was a rotten lesson
you taught young people in a free society when you denounced and then
burned books-books you hadn't even read.  You should also resolve to
expose your children to all sorts of opinions and information, in
order that they will be better equipped to make decisions and to
survive.

Again: you have insulted me, and I am a good citizen, and I am very
real.

Kurt Vonnegut
