7-22-85

Dear Hans van den Broek:

Thank you for your letter telling me of the removal of one of my books
from the Nijmegen library.  And that it is accused of discrimination
against black people, homosexuals and women.  And that it is sadism
because of the sadism.

The thing that I fear discriminating against is humor and truth. 

If I write badly about blacks, homosexuals and women it is because of
these who I met were that.  There are many "bads"--bad dogs, bad
censorship; there are even "bad" white males.  Only when you write
about "bad" white males they don't complain about it.  And need I say
that there are "good" blacks, "good" homosexuals and "good" women?

In my work, as a writer, I only photograph, in words, what I see.  If
I write of "sadism" it is because it exists, I didn't invent it, and
if some terrible act occurs in my work it is because such things
happen in our lives.  I am not on the side of evil, if such a thing as
evil abounds.  In my writing I do not always agree with what occurs,
nor do I linger in the mud for the sheer sake of it.  Also, it is
curious that the people who rail against my work seem to overlook the
sections of it which entail joy and love and hope, and there are such
sections.  My days, my years, my life has seen up and downs, lights
and darknesses.  If I wrote only and continually of the "light" and
never mentioned the other, then as an artist I would be a liar.

Censorship is the tool of those who have the need to hide actualities
from themselves and from others.  Their fear is only their inability
to face what is real, and I can't vent any anger against them.  I only
feel this appalling sadness.  Somewhere, in their upbringing, they
were shielded against the total facts of our existence.  They were
only taught to look one way when many ways exist.

I am not dismayed that one of my books has been hunted down and
dislodged from the shelves of a local library.  In a sense, I am
honored that I have written something that has awakened these from
their non-ponderous depths.  But I am hurt, yes, when somebody else's
book is censored, for that book, usually is a great book and there are
few of those, and throughout the ages that type of book has often
generated into a classic, and what was once thought shocking and
immoral is now required reading at many of our universities.

I am not saying that my book is one of those, but I am saying that in
our time, at this moment when any moment may be the last for many of
us, it's damned galling and impossibly sad that we still have among us
the small, bitter people, the witch-hunters and the declaimers against
reality.  Yet, these too belong with us, they are part of the whole,
and if I haven't written about them, I should, maybe have here, and
that's enough.

may we all get better together, 
yrs,

(Signed)
Charles Bukowski
